Title: Netbooks: The next UMPC or not?
Date: 2008-11-30 20:12
Author: slacy
Category: General
Tags: lenovo s10, netbook, rebuttal, techcrunch
Status: published

So, as you may have read, I just ordered my first 'netbook' computer. At
the same time, I've been reading several articles like [this one from
TechCrunch](http://www.techcrunch.com/2008/11/29/three-reasons-why-netbooks-just-arent-good-enough/)
that say, in essence, "netbooks suck so don't buy one."

Here's my rebuttal to their 3 main points and their conclusion:

1\. Too Little CPU.

Really? Is a 1.6GHz modern-day processer really "too little" for running
a web browser? Thats funny, because web browsers on mobile devices
(iPhone, Android) work just fine with about 1/3rd that many cycles, and
with [CPU Frequency
Scaling](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_frequency_scaling), my
2.1GHz laptop is usually running at a measly 800MHz, and that seems just
fine as well.

I'll admit that it likely has too little CPU for fancy window effects in
Vista, or under compiz for Linux, but those features are pure glitz and
no substance, so they don't really count in my book. I'm fine having a
simple window manager and running pretty much nothing but a full screen
browser.

2\. Too small of a screen.

Well, if you want a small laptop, you have to have a small screen. I
really think the Lenovo S10, with its 10.2" screen, is one of the best
out there. Just like most laptops, the screen is pretty much the same
size as the entire top cover, so without compromizing size (and thus
portability) I'm not sure what the actual complaint here is other than
"they're too small".

3\. Too small of a keyboard.

I think this is being fixed, and quickly. The original Asus Eee machines
have horridly small keyboards, but the newer models (again, like the
Lenovo S10) are 85% of "full size" and I suspect that the next
generation of machines will be 90%+. Again, this only comes with a
compromize in size, and thus portability, but it may be worth it. An 11"
screen may be the optimal for netbooks, but thats not really a
formfactor that's hit the market yet.

Their conclusion: You should just buy a full size laptop.

I don't get this point at all. Saying that one should buy a \$600+ plus
full sized laptop instead of a \$350 netbook is just a crazy argument.
They're two totally different machines. The full size is fast, heavy,
and doesn't last on batteries. The netbook is small, light, but slower,
and lasts much longer on batteries.

I'm not arguing that netbooks are the best laptops on the planet, I'm
just saying that for \$350-\$450, they seem like a pretty sweet deal. If
you want something as small and light, but with a bigger screen and
better CPU, you end up going into the \$1500+ range. Given the choice
between a MacBook Air (or similar, Lenovo X300) for that price, or a
\$400 [Lenovo
S10](http://shop.lenovo.com/us/notebooks/ideapad/s-series), I think I'll
choose the netbook any day.

Caveat: I haven't actually gotten my S10 yet, so I'm really not one to
say whether this is a great machine or not, but I'm hopeful. I'm mostly
just going to use it for hacking on the couch, where something small and
quiet will be just perfect.
