Title: Marketplace: My favorite show on NPR
Date: 2007-10-11 15:37
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Ever since we got more Squeezeboxes in the house, I've been listening to
more podcasts than I had before. One of my favorites are [Marketplace
Morning
Report](http://marketplace.publicradio.org/episodes/show_rundown.php?show_id=15)
(a 5-minute news summary) and
[Marketplace](http://marketplace.publicradio.org/episodes/show_rundown.php?show_id=14)
(a 20-minute show).

I'd describe Marketplace as a news program that focuses on the financial
impacts of current events. For example, they talk about what the toy
recalls mean to the toy makers, and what restrictions in Chinese imports
will do for retail prices. This morning, I listened to how delays in the
production of the Boeing 787 might impact the airline industry. The
great part about it is that they treat financial news in a sort of
light-hearted way with a good dose of humor thrown in. This isn't
something like the McNeill Lehrer Report. Its got a real funny bone, and
they crack jokes about stuff all the time. And, in doing so, they make
financial news extremely accessible, which I think is a real problem.
Financial news is sometimes considered dull and boring, but on
Marketplace, they really make it seem fun!

The other great thing is that they make subtle jokes with their music
all the time. For example, after doing a story on mortgage foreclosures,
they ended the segment with an instrumental segment from the song "Take
Away This Ball and Chain" by The Smithereens. This morning, it was a
clip from "Fool's Gold" by the Stone Roses, (but I don't remember what
the segment was about, but it was still a clever reference).

You should check out the podcasts linked on the pages above, and let me
know if you like it!
