Title: My lucky day!
Date: 2007-01-21 18:34
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Went out this morning again to try to get a [Nintendo
Wii](http://wii.nintendo.com). Because the rumor was that there were
going to be a lot at Target and Best Buy. I got to Target at about 8:05
(5 minutes after opening) and they had already handed out vouchers for
the 85 people that were going to get Wiis from them today. Bugger. I
went directly to Best Buy (that they thought opens at 10am) and the word
there was that they had only handed out 20 vouchers, and that that was
all there was, but you were welcome to stand in line if you'd like.

So, I decided to go back to Best Buy at 10am when it opened. I got there
about 9:50, and took a place in the short line. A guy got in line behind
me and I asked him if he was here for a Wii. He said that actually, he
had just got one, and that he was here for a controller. He said how he
and his wife had gotten up at 5:30, split up, went to 2 different
Targets, just to get a Wii that they had promised their daughter for
Chirstmas.

Well, it turns out that this guy ended up with 2 Wiis, and said that he
was going to go and return one when he was done. I promptly jumped in
and said that I'd buy it off him at cost. He agreed. I went out to an
ATM, came back with some cash, and went home with a brand new Wii. Go
figure.

So, if you've got one, and you want to exchange friend codes, send me an
e-mail, and we'll get that all set up, but I'm not sure exactly what it
buys us. I'm still on the look out for a 2nd controller, since it'll be
awesome for 2-player Wii Sports. Hopefully I'll just be able to go down
to the store and get one in a month or 2...
