Title: Re: DevDays 2011 is Cancelled
Date: 2011-09-06 20:24
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Woah, Joel & Jeff.  [This is **NOT** your
fault](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/09/devdays-2011-is-cancelled/).

Want to know something?  People don't care as much about StackOverflow
as they did in '09.  Back in '09, it was the model success of how to
bootstrap a scappy idea into a programmers utopia of canonical,
purist information retrieval.

In 2011, StackOverflow is a "network" (yes, I correctly used
sarcasm-quotes) of Q&A sites where it's hard to know which one to go to,
which one to post to, or what the culture is.  The volume of traffic on
the original stackoverflow.com is so, so high (and the filtering so
poor) that it's impossible to get in a great answer first, and the whole
thing is so maddeningly disorganized that it's just not fun anymore.

In '09, there was something magic about going to the site, finding a
newly asked and newly answered question, jumping right in and getting
those votes.

Now, in '11, it feels like a Reddit-esque popularity contest of Karma.
 (Oh wait, I meant "reputation").  I still enjoy seeing StackOverflow in
Google results, because the content is better than most, but many times
the top voted question isn't the "best" one, and adding my measly one
vote isn't going to fix it, so I rarely bother.  Oh, and dare I say that
ActiveState will frequently have correct, good answers for Python issues
not really covered well on StackOverflow?

So again I say sorry, Jeff & Joel.  It's not you, it's your site.
 You're not the new shiny anymore.  You're a great resource, but I've
moved on, and I spend my time writing code rather than hanging out on
StackOverflow.  And thus, the community aspect has greatly weakened, and
that's why the DevDays weren't as popular.
