Title: Building a new "Relatively Quiet" new PC
Date: 2005-10-06 10:06
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

I'm getting tired of the performance problems with my current machine.
Surprisingly enough, I think I'm getting CPU-bound on a lot of the
things I do (transcoding & encoding music, sizing photos, panoramas,
etc.) So I'm going to start building a new machine.

What I know: Its going to be a full tower AMD Athlon system, and its
gonna have a lot of drives in it (at least 3x250G, maybe even 6x250G or
6x400G, depending on how I have them set up). I'm going to run linux
software RAID 5 managed by LVM. That way, I can add more space as
necessary, and have the level of redundancy that I'd like (reliable
storage is very important). Price is not really an issue, as I can
justify that its going to last for at least a couple of years. I'm
thinking of doing the thing I usually say I won't, which is buying the
fastest system I can make. We'll see how that conflicts with my acoustic
goals.

The one thing that I haven't figured out yet is the graphics card -- all
the modern nVidia chipsets have horrendus fans on them (some sites sell
quieter replacements, which I may look into). One of the annoyances with
my current system is that it doesn't have accellerated video, and some
simple operations eat up way too much CPU time, so I want to make sure I
have at least a little accelleration. But, its going to be a Linux
server/desktop machine, and I don't plan on running games on it, so 3D
performance isn't crucial, but it would be nice every once in a while.

The other aspect that I haven't decided on is if I want to run 64-bit
Linux (Fedora Core 4) on it or not. I'm going to do a bunch of research
and see if all the packages are generally available in 64-bit versions.
My other question is: If you're running a 64-bit kernel, is there some
sort of "32-bit compatability layer" that will let you run apps compiled
for 32-bit? And if so, what is the performance penalty? Those are the
biggest questions so far.

The important part is that I want this beast to be "Relatively Quiet" as
I call it. I'm not planning to build a silent or fanless or watercooled
PC, I just want something that doesn't sound like a jet-powered wind
tunnel. So, I'm researching my options, and came across a couple good
sites. The ones I like so far are:

[End PC Noise](http://www.endpcnoise.com/)  
  
[Silent PC Review (the best of the
bunch)](http://www.silentpcreview.com/)  
  
[Acousti Products - who make a lot of the stuff the other sites
sell](http://www.acoustiproducts.com/en/index.asp)  
  
[Quiet PC USA, a retailer](http://www.quietpcusa.com/)  
[Silicon Acoustics, a great source of hard drive suspensions and other
quiet accessories](http://siliconacoustics.com)

Looks like most people are saying that the Antec Sonata is a good case,
one of the new Zalman heat syncs, and the rest is pretty standard, with
maybe a quiet power supply and replacement graphics card cooling fans.
Since the higher clock Athlon's aren't really rated at a higher wattage,
I'm probably just going to go with one step down from the fastest chip.
I'm still trying to figure out AMD's marketing and product lineup, which
is a real mystery at this point.

If you have any recommendations, please comment or drop me a line.
