Title: Chiasso & SEKO Wordwide
Date: 2005-07-26 18:35
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

My wife and I had ordered some furniture from the
[Chiasso](http://chiasso.com) catalog, and had a pure nightmare of
getting the stuff delivered. Bottom line: We'll never order from Chiasso
again, and we hope that we don't have to deal with the shipping company
"[SEKO Worldwide](http://sekoworldwide.com)" ever again.

First, SEKO Worldwide was being completely unreasonable when it came to
delivery dates and times -- they're based out of the North Bay
somewhere, and since we're in the South Bay, they only wanted to offer
us delivery times with ranges like "1pm to 5pm", and that was the only
range they would deliver in. No deliveries before noon, and none after
5pm.

So, we finally get our furniture, there were 4 boxes, and 3 of theme
were fairly badly scuffed up and ripped, and it turned out that 2 out of
the 3 items were damaged. In addition, we had 3 more items on order.
Since we had to return the 2 damaged items anyway, we decided to just
return everything and cancel the order altogether. Chiasso was fairly
amenable when it came to cancelling the order, but then we had to deal
with SEKO Wordwide for the pickup again. Chiasso arranged for them to
pick up the furniture, and told us that they would bring packing
materials, because everything needed to be repacked (especially since it
was damaged).

To make a long story short, after 1 missed attempt at getting them to
pick our stuff up, SEKO shows up with absolutely no packing materials,
uses the torn boxes that the stuff came in with some tape that I lent
them, and just put the rest of the stuff in their truck. One of the
items was a mirror that had become detached from its frame, and they
just threw the whole thing in a cardboard box with no padding at all.

So, then I had to call Chiasso to let them know that the stuff was
picked up with no padding, and that we were in no way responsible for
damage incurred during shipping.

I'm happy the stuff is gone, and I hope to never deal with either of
these companies ever again. Its sad to think how destroyed that stuff is
going to be, though.

Oh, and by the way, the furniture was made by a Canadian company called
"[Hupp√© de Victoriaville](http://huppe.net)" and I don't think I'd
really recommend them either. The 2 damaged items were fairly poorly
constructed. The bed frame came with no slats or supports for a matress,
etc.

Now, we're just on the way to filling our whole house with [Room &
Board](http://roomandboard.com) furniture.
