Title: Cool image processing
Date: 2005-04-22 07:00
Author: slacy
Category: Photos
Status: published

Through some odd serendipity, I stumbled across a website for a cool
Gimp plugin called
["Resynthesizer"](http://www.logarithmic.net/pfh/resynthesizer) that
does some algorithmic texture processing and generation. The cool part
is that it has some Gimp script-fu (yes, thats the proper name) to
remove and synthesize portions of images. So, if you've got an image
with some dust, scratches, or just some crap that you don't want to have
in the picture, it will automatically remove it for you, with almost
zero pain. Its really really cool. Here are some examples.

Here's the original image. We're going to be removing the tent in the
middle using Resynthesizer.  
![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/resynthesizer/img_2470.sized.jpg)

In this shot, we have roughly selected the tent using the lasso.  
![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/resynthesizer/shot1.jpg)

In the next shot, we have run Script-Fu-&gt;Enhance-&gt;Smart Remove
Selection, and you can see that the tent is now gone  
![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/resynthesizer/shot2.jpg)

Here is the newly patched image. If you didn't know the tent was there
before, you'd never guess that it was automatically removed.  
![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/resynthesizer/img_2470.patched.jpg)

Isn't that amazing? There are all sorts of other texture-manipulation
tasks that you can do, including a really cool version of "make
seamless" that synthesizes a seamless texture from scratch. Its wicked.

Here's a tight crop from the full size image:  
![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/resynthesizer/img_2470.cropped.jpg)

Now, we run Filters-&gt;Map-&gt;Resynthesize on it, select the tiling
options, and we get the following tilable image:  
![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/resynthesizer/img_2470.tiled.jpg)

Wow! Give it a try!  
  

