Title: Networks have a long way to go.
Date: 2005-05-31 18:28
Author: slacy
Category: Web
Status: published

I've become very partial to the "streaming everywhere" model of music
playback. I don't store any music locally, I just stream it from
wherever I am. I think I'm sort of "ahead of the curve" when it comes to
network usage, and considering network a "utility" (like water & power)
but I think its coming, and its coming very fast. In addition, I think
we're going to see voice communications switch to VOIP very, very
quickly. It will get to the point where having a home network (for your
phone, TV and computer) will become a necessity, and these technologies
well usher in a new age of connectedness, with the ability to hear audio
(phone or music), video TV (recorded, broadcast, or locally created)
from anywhere, anytime. Yes, I sound like one of those big-headed
futurists, but I think its true, and we're almost there.

But, I had never thought about what the implications of this might be in
larger environments. Today, listening to music at work is a common
occurrance, using iPods, CD players, etc. But what about by using the
network? Think about this: You might work at a 100 person company, and
your network will need to support those users streaming high quality
music (320kbps) and voice (128kbps) at the same time. 438kbps/user \*
100 users = 43 megabits. This is probably in the range of 10-40 times
the average network speed of a 100 person company. Now, the weird part
is that a 1000 person company probably doesn't have 10x the bandwidth
that a 100 person company does. Most likely, they have the same
bandwidth as a 100 person company. 1000 people doing 438kbps = 430
megabits per second. I'm not sure what it takes to buy bandwidth like
that, but I bet its many tens of thousands of dollars per month, not an
expendature that most companies are willing to make. I wonder where this
is going, and if all that "dark fiber" might actually be getting used in
the near future...
