Title: New feature on EMusic: Dozens
Date: 2005-08-09 22:11
Author: slacy
Category: Music
Status: published

My [EMusic](http://emusic.com) monthly subscription rolls over on the
8th or 9th of every month, so at just about this time I'm scouring their
archives for new and interesting content. I've finally gotten down my
"Save for later" selections down to a minimum, so I'm free to choose
some new stuff.

So, I during my digging, I saw a link to
"[Dozens](http://www.emusic.com/features/editorial/dozens.html)" from
one album I was looking at. Turns out its a fairly new feature where
they profile 12 albums (or songs) from a single genre or style. They've
got a good selection of styles, all kinds of stuff including "Power
Pop", "Glitch", "Electro", etc. So, I downloaded a bunch of things I'd
heard about but was looking for some positive review before I took the
plunge.

I'm pretty happy with the selections, although they all seem to share
some common threads (maybe I should have been expecting this?), the most
surprising of which is some sort of euro-pop female vocalists. I guess I
should have expected as much from the "Electro" section. (or not?) I was
kind of thinking there'd be a bunch of dance hits, but not really. If
you're familiar with Ladytron, you know what I'm talking about.

Oh, the one set that I was really disappointed with was the "[Top 2005
albums... so
far](http://www.emusic.com/lists/showlist.html?nickname=emusicstaff&lid=203342&p=1)"
selection. I know this is just generated by "sales" but its really a
disjointed and annoying set of things. I'll pass.
