Title: The Golden Dollar, Native Americans, and World Economies
Date: 2005-04-22 07:00
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

On a recent visit to a foreign country, I realized a bunch of really
interesting things:

There are a bunch of 3rd world countries that previously had collapsing
economies. The way that they delt with this was to adopt U.S. currency
as the base for their economy. So, I'm not sure exactly how this works,
but imagine an entire country dissolving their Federal banking system in
favor of using the system from another completely different country.
They continue minting coins (because the cost of transporting coins is
greater than their value).

So, what does this mean to the U.S.? Is it a good thing or a bad thing?
What happens when random Joe Country calls up the Feds and says "Hey,
could you send a couple billion dollars down here, we've decided to
dissolve our reserve banks?" What's our response? How do we deal with
something like this? What if they've already amassed the cash on hand?
I've no idea.

What about the change? The countries continue to mint their own coinage,
but obviously, that coinage is pseudo-US currency, (as it is exchangable
for US currency) but its not backed or created by the US Federal Reserve
Bank. I suspect that the Feds are sort of annoyed at this, and would
like to keep it to a minimum.

So, how does the Golden Dollar fit in? Well, if these 3rd world
countries are minting their own coins, they're probably going to mint a
\$1 coin, or, the U.S. might say "you're only allowed to mint
denominations less than \$1". (this would be a reasonable restriction,
as they want to prevent the country from minting other large
denomination coins that are exchangable for US currency, as that would
significantly devalue our economy) So, if the citizens want a \$1 coin,
they have to ask the US for it, and they have to pay to have it
transported from overseas.

But this minting/transportation process is actually *good* for the US
economy, because its a service we can charge money for, essentially
"making" money and selling it overseas.

So, if you were to choose a mascot for this new service, who would you
choose? Would you consider the fact that all of our money is printed
with the faces of old white men? Would you consider that the people who
are using this currency might actually think of themselves as Americans
(South American)? Would you consider that usage of a \$1 coin inside the
borders of the US is extremely unlikely?

I assert that the choice of Sacagawea, in Native American dress, holding
a child on her back, is an image that is very familiar in South America,
and that the image was chosen to meet the needs of that "market" as a
product that we can "sell" there.

  
  

