Title: Rebuttal to Brad Templeton's essay on solar
Date: 2009-03-20 10:06
Author: slacy
Category: General
Tags: carbon, credits, emissions, sequestration, solar
Status: published

Brad says:

> The true goal \[of green energy\] is to find the method that provides
> the most bang per buck in removing load from the grid.

via [Brad Ideas | Crazy ideas, inventions, essays and links from Brad
Templeton](http://ideas.4brad.com/).

The essay is interesting, and compares the cost of solar energy
production to the amount of energy that can be saved via simple
conservation.   I don't at all agree that conservation is a cheaper way
to reduce energy consumption than solar is.  There are many people who
are willing and able to do both, and articles like this make it seem
like one should never install solar.  But, the bottom line is, if you
have the discretionary income, then you should get solar, buy CFL
lights, drive a Prius, install efficient appliances.  Do absolutely
everything within your power to reduce your emissions!  Brad should be
motivating and empowering the country to do as much as they can with
their dollars!

But, Brad doesn't address the most important issues:

**What is the true cost of the emissions from dirty energy sources?**

One way to begin to answer this question is to look into how much
[Carbon Credits](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_credits) cost on
different markets, and how this influences the full circle lifetime cost
of energy.  (See also [Emissions
Trading](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emission_trading))

I don't have time right now to do the research, but I will say that we
can never know what the future cost of today's dirty energy sources
are.  ([emissions data per energy source can be found
here](http://www.epa.gov/grnpower/pubs/calcmeth.htm)).  The cost of
carbon credits vary widely from \$1/Ton Carbon to \$25/Ton.  As an
example, burning a gallon of gas produces about 20 pounds of carbon
([from epa.gov](http://www.epa.gov/OMS/climate/420f05004.htm)).  Using
today's prices, this adds between \$0.01 and \$0.25 for the cost of the
emissions.   1 penny is a small cost, but 25 cents is something that
would actually begin to change people's driving and buying behaviors,
and would significantly change the financial models for things like the
Prius.

But, carbon sequestration techniques are in their infancy, and are
currently very expensive.  Carbon capture via trees is a good idea, but
as a whole, the planet is cutting down trees, not planting the, and
thus, making the problem worse.  Existing "carbon offsets" sometimes use
experimental techniques (like seeding the oceans with iron to stimulate
algal growth) that are unproven and have unknown long term side effects
and viability.  This market is very immature and we don't know where
it's going!   And, we have yet to even talk about things like the
Mercury that is burned by coal production!  How will we clean this up? 
At what cost?  (Over 50% of the U.S. electricity is generated from coal!
via [epa.gov](http://www.epa.gov/radtown/coal-plant.html))

So, Brad, I challenge you to come up with an economic model for the cost
of burning a gallon of gasoline, or using a MWh of electricity, and
factor that into your calculations.

The fact that coal is the cheapest source of energy, but produces the
most emissions, is a clear indicator to me that we have the financial
model of energy & emissions backwards.  We're not paying today for the
pollution that we're going to have to clean up tomorrow.
