Title: Cupertino Snake Oil
Date: 2007-01-09 18:10
Author: slacy
Category: TV, Web
Status: published

Ok, I have something to say:

Yes, Apple announced an iPhone. No, its not for sale. In fact, if you
look closely, there's not a single **photograph** of the device. Steve
wasn't holding it and flaunting it on the show floor. Its all CGI
renderings and screenshots. This thing is a *long* way away. My money is
on a 2008 delivery. If there were even one single mock up or poduction
prototype that Steve could have used, he would have been all over it.
But, he wasn't, and therefore, this thing is nearly vaporware. Apple has
just essentially started to make the rumors come true and implement what
people are drooling for. This isn't a bad strategy, but I wish they
would stick to shipping products, not concepts.

Secondly, the same basic comment applies to the Apple TV. No photos.
Does the box run? Did it demo? Where is it? February? Really? Is this
going to extend the DRM-crazed Walled Garden of iEverything from our
pockets (iPods) to our livingrooms? Sounds sort of annoying. Why only
720p? Why not 1080p? (I know, hardware for 1080p is too expensive, thats
why.)

Thirdly, all the iPhone really is is a Newton 2007. Don't mistake it.
Its more PDA than phone, and the whole touchscreen thing is very
Newton-esque. (Does it have a stylus? How do you interact with it? Does
it get all smudgy and disgusting if I call someone and eat fries at the
same time?) I'm not saying that this is a bad thing, I'm just saying
that you shouldn't really call it a phone. Its a Widescreen iPod that
can make calls and has WiFi. Thats probably a better way of putting it,
but Apple is too afraid of calling it a PDA due to the failure of the
Newton (which was an awesome device).

Oh, and by the way, post title comes from
[this](http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~stoll/silicon_snake_oil.html)
