Title: If I could have my way, he'd never eat there.
Date: 2007-08-07 14:44
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

On the "kids" front, another interesting story came out today about how
kids think food wrapped in McDonalds wrappers taste better than food in
unbranded labels.Â  Here's a link to the CNN-digested version: [Food in
McDonald's wrapper tastes better to
kids](http://www.cnn.com/2007/HEALTH/diet.fitness/08/06/mcdonalds.preschoolers.ap/index.html)

This is so disturbing on so many levels. McDonalds has somehow
brainwashed an entire generation of kids into thinking that the addition
of the "golden arches" makes things taste better? This is really really
insane. Are the kids projecting a hyper-real version of McDonalds on to
the food they're eating? Would they even eat the McDonalds food if it
weren't wrapped in tasty yellow and gold marketing goo?

I know its unrealistic, but if I get my way, Isaac will never eat at
McDonalds. Unfortunately, I think it might be unavoidable when on road
trips and in strange places. Its part of my super-optimistic parenting
ideals that haven't yet hit the proverbial fan.

This article also makes me wonder if there's some instinctual or genetic
explanation for this behavior. For example, could it be that berries
eaten by a lake actually taste better than the exact same berries eaten
in a strip mall parking lot? Just imagining the situations, I think the
answer is yes, but its hard to figure out why. And why is McDonalds the
"lake" and everything else a parking lot? Is it experiential, where the
kids have associated pleasant feelings (and thus, good "taste") with
McDonalds, or is it a product of marketing and fictional images? Will
Isaac prefer food wrapped in McDonalds wrappers, even if he's never
eaten there? My mind reels at the prospect...
