Title: Now is the time to go Solar. 
Date: 2007-03-08 17:06
Author: slacy
Category: General, solar
Status: published

As you may have heard, we've just purchased a grid-tied solar electric
system for our house. When I tell people that we're doing this, the
general response is: "Thats really awesome, but I'm waiting for advances
in efficency and costs to go down before investing in solar". So, here's
a list of reasons why I think that the time is **now** to invest in a
solar system and start saving the environment.

-   Solar efficiency has improved very little over the last 20 years. I
    don't expect "leaps and bounds" increases in efficiency at a
    consumer-friendly price, any time in the next 2 decades. But, I hope
    I'm proven wrong.
-   Solar *is* an investment. It will be cash flow positive, it just
    takes a little while to get there. In the mean time, you save
    the environment.
-   The price of electricity is going up. Buying solar now means more
    savings in the future, and a shorter payback duration.
-   The efficiency of a solar system controls nothing more than the
    square footage of panels you need. If future "high efficiency"
    systems come to market, they'll just be a little smaller than the
    ones being built today. Don't be distracted by reports of super-high
    efficiency cells. They're usually produced in special laboratories,
    and are well beyond what any homeowner could afford. All that
    matters is dollars per watt!
-   Investing in solar technology today fuels innovation, drives
    consumer demand, and helps reduce our dependency on gas, diesel &
    coal fired electricity generation, *today.*
-   The more solar systems are installed, the higher consumer acceptance
    of such systems will be. By buying a system today, I can raise
    awareness, and inspire future buyers. One big consideration we
    initially had was "how will our house look with a bunch of
    street-facing panels on the roof." Now, my reaction is: I'm glad all
    our panels are street-facing, because it'll show the world that we
    care about our energy consumption, and that we're doing something
    about it. The old reaction of "unsightly solar panels" needs to
    become a thing of the past, and this will only happen if people see
    solar in their everyday lives.
-   If, in the next 7 years, if costs of solar systems get cut in half,
    then our break even points will be exactly the same. A solar system
    purchased today takes between 10 and 15 years to pay off. At 50% of
    the cost, it'll take 50% of the time to pay off, but that won't be
    possible any time soon. Buying now is the same as buying later, if
    all that maters is the time it takes to pay off the system.
-   15 years isn't that long. Time flies, and this is an investment for
    the long term, like buying a new car, except that it'll last a *lot*
    longer than a car.
-   Solar cells "wear out" over time. This is somewhat true, but loss is
    typically about 1% per year, and panels last 30+ years. Individual
    panels cand be replaced and upgraded if they fail.
-   If you could pay your utility provider a little more for electricity
    *today*, would you do it? Doesn't this mean that the "value" of the
    electricity generated by your own solar system is *higher* than what
    your utility provider pays you for generating it? In other words, if
    you value alternative energy, then you should be willing to pay &
    invest in it.
-   The California Solar Initiative rebate program offsets future
    price decreases. The main purpose of the CSI is to offset possible
    price drops in solar technology *today.* We're getting a rebate of
    \$2.30/watt, and the average cost of install is about \$8/watt.
    Thats almost a 30% discount! As systems are installed and the
    rebates "dry up" (there's a limited supply of rebates available), I
    suspect that the total system cost of solar will go **up** in the
    next year or two, until the panel cost comes down, or the rebate
    program is extended. CSI is giving away \$2.8 billion in rebates. By
    getting in now, I can get a bigger piece of that pie.
-   What about off-grid systems? A grid-tied system won't power our home
    when there's a blackout, because we have no way to store energy. An
    off-grid system has a battery storage system, which adds both cost
    and maintainance. By going with a grid-tied system, I can help the
    environment today, at a price I can afford, and have a zero
    maintainence system. There's always the possibility of replacing our
    grid-tied inverter with an off-grid system in the future.

