Title: Unbelivably tasty Tea
Date: 2007-01-18 18:04
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

I've never been a big tea drinker. But, I like a tasty beverage, and I
always like to try new things. One morning at work, I decided to try
some of the tea that they've got here. Upon first inspection, it looked
like just some normal tea bags in nice foil packs.

But, when you open the pack, its something totally different. Instead of
a folded tissue paper style teabag, there's a beautiful silk pouch,
filled with whole tea leaves, and sewn on 3 edges. It caught my eye, and
frankly, my first impression was "hey, its just some fru fru tea company
with pretty pictures on the box." So, I get my hot water, I pop in the
bag, and I notice something: It doesn't float. It sinks pretty much
right to the bottom of the cup. Awesome. Tea bags are always sort of
annoying when they get full of air and you try to squeeze them to make
them sink. Not possible with this awesome silk bag. I notice on the
label that it says "Brew 3 minutes" which I find comforting, since I
never really know how long to brew it, and I usually go too long and it
gets all bitter and gross. So, I wait the recommended 3 minutes, remove
the bag, and take a sip. My first reaction? "Oh my god this is the best
tea I've ever tasted I can't believe that its so incredibly good!"
Really. Seriously. I'm no tea conniseur, but this stuff was really
awesome.

So, I try all 8 flavors. They're all awesome. I start drinking hot tea
in the morning, and making iced tea in the afternoon. Its awesome. All
is well in my yummy tea universe.

So, we bought some [Mighty Leaf](http://mightyleaf.com) at the grocery
store the other day. Its expensive, but really really good. They don't
have all the varieties at the store, so I'll probably order a bunch from
the web some day...
