Title: GM's reply to "Who Killed The Electric Car?"
Date: 2006-07-12 15:45
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

I guess GM is feeling pretty defensive about [Who Killed The Electric
Car?](http://whokilledtheelectriccar.com) So much so that they've taken
to [writing up a rebuttal in their
blog.](http://www.gm.com/company/onlygm/fastlane_Blog_2.html#EV1) There
are so many things wrong with their rebuttal, that I just don't know
where to start.

I guess I can start my asking the hypothetical question: If they spent a
billion dollars on developing the car, then why did they only produce
800? Did they ever think they would make their billion back? How much
did they spend on marketing the EV1 compared to other cars? I think its
funny that even after what was said in the movie that they still assert
that their 4,000 person long waiting list led to only 50 people who were
interested. We can't hear what was said to those 50 people, but I'll
believe the woman in the movie vs. a GM executive.

Oh, and why weren't people allowed to purchase the cars? They clearly
wanted to do that, and yet GM didn't let them.

Oh, and why have the remaining cars been disabled? In the movie, we see
that there's a car at the [Petersen Automotive
Museum](http://petersen.org), and that its been "disabled" so that it
won't run anymore. Why did they have to do that? Its really suspicious!

Oh, and hybrids != electrics. Hybrids still use gas. Most American
hybrids only get 10-20% better mileage than their non-hybrid
counterparts. Nice PR move, GM.

Oh, and fuel cells, only 4 years away? I'll wager with you on that one,
GM. I don't think you can build *any* radically new car in 4 years. Did
you hear the guy in the movie that said that we'll need on the order of
10,000 hydrogen feuling stations before fuel cells become viable? Its a
real chicken-and-egg problem, and its not being solved in 4 years, thats
for sure.

Nice try GM, but you're basically reinforcing everything that was said
in the movie -- so much so that its more an admission of guilt than it
is some kind of redemption. Sheesh!
