Title: It's not the name, its the music.
Date: 2006-03-14 17:40
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Sometimes I get a little frustrated with music and the internet.

The problem is that because I use Linux, and because I'm a cheapskate, I
don't use the iTunes Music Store. First, DRM'd music is just a pain in
the ass. (Note: I didn't say "evil"). I want my music to play
everywhere. Second, \$0.99 for a song is **way** too much money. So, I
use to get all my music. \$20/month gets me 90 songs, which nets at less
than a quarter per song.

But, [emusic](http://emusic.com) has its drawbacks. Most importantly, is
that it doesn't have a very good selection of mainstream music. No U2,
no Coldplay, etc. And sometimes I hear something on the radio that
really gets me itching to listen to some good mainstream brit rock.

I wander my way through my music collection, compare with reviews on
emusic and allmusic, and usually find something to download. Sometimes
it sucks, and other times its great.

Not too long ago, I downloaded some
[Elbow.](http://www.allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&sql=10:sq7m968o0ep8)
I'm here to say that its changed my thinking about music. Its not the
name of the band that matters, its just the style. Elbow is part U2,
part Coldplay, part Radiohead. Its just what I've been looking for, and
its something I've never heard of before. As far as my brain knows, its
a new album by one of my old favorites, but it just turns out that its
not. I like it. I like knowing that I'm just foraging my own way through
the crazy world of online music, and I like the fact that I've severed
ties with major labels, DRM, and crazy schemes like the iTunes Music
Store. I don't always get exactly the name I'm looking for, but the
music is right.
