Title: What's really going to happen to the Nintendo Wii.
Date: 2006-07-13 15:43
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

I had a vision today. A vision of the future of Wii-ness. Here's how it
goes:

Case 1: Wii is outrageously successful. Every game maker has produced
fabulous games for it, and they're all so creative and so unique that...
Microsoft and Sony produce thier own versions of Wii-like controllers.
Game manufacturers immediately port their successful Wii-exclusive games
to the 360 and PS3, immediately quadrupling their sales, and consumers
get the same great games with even better graphics. Nintendo is heralded
as revolutionizing the console gaming market, but MS & Sony bundle games
with their new "Wand" controllers, giving the controllers away for
virtually nothing. Consumers realize that buying a \$50 XBox game, with
free wand controller, gets you a better experience than a \$149 combo of
a new Wii (\$99) and the same game (\$39). Mario & Zelda titles are
brand leaders for the Wii hardware, keeping it alive and in 2nd place
until the PS3 comes out in a year or so. Other than those two games,
very few creative titles are "Wii-exclusive", since the controller is
now ubiquitous. Nintendo declares bankruptcy after about a year of
slmuping Wii sales, and tries to hold on to the Japanese console and
handheld market.

Case 2: Wii is a dud: Games are interestingly novel, but none have
mass-market appeal, even though many are immediate cult classics.
Nintendo declares the Wii an outright success because of the critical
acclaim of the games, but declares a 4th quarter loss because of
significantly lower than expected Christmas sales. None of the hardcore
gamers are attracted (because of the lack of "133t" graphics) and casual
gamers are dissuaded by its odd looks, and its even odder selection of
games. Even with a great Mario & Zelda title, its just not enough to
attract the masses. A small set of people, like myself, will totally
love it, and then it will fade into oblivion. Nintendo declares
bankruptcy at the end of the first quarter of 2007: only 6 months after
the Wii release, and tries to hold on to the Japanese console and
handheld market.

Case 3: Wii is a total dud: Games are gimmicky and silly. None of them
have enough "finesse" to hold your attention for longer than 20 or 30
minutes. Mario & Zelda titles are "last of a generation" for those 2
series, having now been pounded into the groud by a poorly concieved
system. Sales slump, since no one is really compelled by the games to
buy the box. Nintendo declares bankruptcy, and tries to hold on to the
Japanese console and handheld market.

Postscript:

Trying to recover financially, as well as trying to recover declining
Wii sales, Nintendo releases the "Wii-Lite" which is a DS Lite with
embedded Wii style controls and dual widescreen LCDs. Most games are
poorly ported versions of their bigger console brothers, but a few are
fun and interesting. Critical features are missing: Better 3D graphics,
Builtin WiFi, removable user storage for music, movies & photos. The
platform is rushed out the door, so no "killer" titles are available at
launch, opening the door for Microsoft...

Microsoft comes out with the "XBoxToGo" which is half PDA, half iPod,
half cell phone, half DVD player, and half Xbox. Despite its
Frankenstein-ian description, its wildly successful because of the
ability to play "Halo3ToGo", music from iTunes, talk on the phone, and
surf the web, all at the same time. "XBoxToGo" is available from all
major cell network providers: Verizon, Cingular, and Sprint for a low,
subsidized price, as well as in a "phone optional" version through the
usual consumer outlets.

Sony concedes the handheld market, ending production of the PSP, but
declares success of the PS3 because they win the HD-DVD wars with their
Blu-Ray format. Because the PS3 is the most inexpensive Blu-Ray player
available, it sees modest success initially, but as soon as the Korean &
Chinese manufacturers jump on Blu-Ray, PS3 sales halt, and the platform
silently disappears.

Nintendo's Wii-Lite is a distant second place to the XBoxToGo, and since
the Wii console is dead (in the U.S.), there aren't enough sales to keep
the company solvent for long. Realizing that good titles are all that
matters, Nintendo finally makes the brash decision to switch from a
hardware company to a software company, and Mario & Zelda titles appear
for the XBox 360, more than 12 months later than their original debut on
the Wii. They don't sell well in the US because U.S. gamers don't enjoy
that sort of game, or they've already seen them on the Wii. Nintendo's
software titles don't sell well overseas, because of low sales of the
XBox 360 overseas.
