Title: Apple vs. Samsung: The cost of Android fragmentation.
Date: 2012-08-27 08:51
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

I've commented in the past about how Android fragmentation isn't really
as huge of an issue as some developers have made it to be.  But, there
is one elephant in the room that no one is talking about:

> Android fragmentation and lack of updates increased damages in the Apple vs. Samsung lawsuit.
> =============================================================================================

How?  Why?  Well, the sad truth of it is that Android is evolving over
time to be "less infringing" on Apple patents.  One great example of
this is the "bounce-back scrolling feature" patent.  This feature did
not exist in Android 1.x, was implemented (poorly, I might add) in
Android 2.x, and was then removed in Android 3.x and 4.x and replaced
with a non-infringing color-overlay scrolling feedback mechanism.

So, if Samsung (or any other vendor) had been able to keep devices up to
date more quickly, they would have been less liable to Apple for
damages.  Similarly, if they had been quicker to adopt new Android
versions (say, 4.0) then they would not be liable for any damages
against this patent.

There are many other examples of how Google is evolving the Android User
Interface to NOT infringe on Apple patents .  This is the first case
that I can think of where fragmentation (more specifically: Lack of
keeping software versions up-to-date) has cost anyone real money.  By
the books, it's Samsung who's paying, and maybe this means they'll be
more aggressive with keeping up to date.

I also hope Google sees this lesson, and helps the hardware
manufacturers with hardware drivers and other issues that hold back
software on many devices.
