Title: Cloud storage predictions.
Date: 2012-01-23 20:20
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Every once in a while I say something on Twitter and it gets a few
responses.  Today, it was this quote:

At some point in the future, cloud storage will be faster than a local
HDD.  Even later, cloud will be faster than an SSD.

A couple of people called "BS" on the SSD part, which I found
surprising.  They quoted network latency, and other facts about today's
performance numbers.

Remember that in today's large scale server environments, that a
clustered filesystem can provide performance that's better than any
locally connected storage.  Yes, this is really true, today.  And yes,
it's about network latency and the pretty lame state of bus technology
for hard drives.  But, it's true nonetheless.  (You might have to try
pretty hard with a fully switched 10GigE network, but it's possible.)  I
can even imagine a not-that-crazy rack setup that provided better
throughput than a locally connected 4\*SSD RAID array. (by using fully
switched 4\*10GigE bonded ethernet).  But, I digress.

Isn't this exactly like saying "640kB should be enough for anyone"?
 What were network latency and throughput numbers like 10, 15 or 20
years ago?  I'll remind you:  15 years ago you were lucky to have a
100Mhz machine, and you likely had a 56.6kbps modem, and maybe you had a
100GB hard drive.  Maybe.

So, 15 years in the future, and I'd fully expect my home to be connected
to cloud storage that's faster than a single locally connected SATA3 SSD
is today.  But, I'd also expect that whatever state-of-the-art local
storage technology we have will still be far faster than that.
