Title: 10 totally awesome Lost prequel  spinoff ideas.
Date: 2010-05-24 13:10
Author: slacy
Category: General
Tags: lost, prequel, sequel, spinoff
Status: published

(Thanks [Zeigen](http://zeigen.com/blog) and
[Earthdog](http://richardhthomas.com) for the help on this one!)

### "Lost-gyptians"

Set in 2000BC, the story of the Egyptians, how they came to the island
and built much of the early structures on the island.

Egyptian explorers arrive via boat, bringing with them the first
animals.  They meet Jacob's Mother there, build temples (despite her
pleas) and attract any number of other random visitors from that area
(Vikings & Asians both come to mind as seafaring peoples of that same
time.)   The Island is explained as the source of power for the Egyptian
empire for some time, and as

### "C.J.'s Big Vacation"

The story of Jacob's mother, and how she arrived on the island. C.J.
retires from her post at the White House in the late 1990's, and takes a
South Pacific cruise.  A terrible storm brews, and her ship is thrown
wildly off course, hits an uncharted sea mount, and C.J. and her boy toy
make it to the island as the only survivors.  From there, the intrigue
just grows.  They realize they've been transported back to 1690!  Is she
Gaia, or is she just a disgruntled White House staffer on vacation?

### "The Hurley Show"

It is the zany antics of our favorite lost characters Hurley and Ben as
they try to live together without killing each other. They antics take
them all over the island with the wacky neighbor bernard.  They have
some laughs and might just learn some lessons.

### "Sawyer's Revenge"

After arriving in Heaven, Sawyer begins plotting revenge on the *real*
Sawyer.  Set in post-island Heaven, the bounds of traditional
storytelling are bent and stretched as never before.  Each episode
focuses on a historical figure recruited by Sawyer to help him on his
quest to find and vanquish his arch-enemy back to The Island.  Or Hell. 
His choice.

### "The Island P.I."

After getting back from the Island Richard strikes out on his own.  It
is a weekly action packed hour as Richard takes the cases which the
police can't solve.  With the supernatural help of Miles and the flight
skills of Lapidus he fights for the weak and makes up for all that lost
time.  Eloise Hawking keeps our three heroes in line as they fight for
justice and seek adventure.

### "Whitmore's Angels"

Mr. & Mrs Whitmore form a rogue set of Fringe-division agents by
recruiting Miles (I see dead people), Daniel Faraday (crazy physicist),
and Desmond (Magnetito) to do their bidding.  Frequent cameos from many
of the original Lost castmembers make this a lively Los Angeles-based
detective romp.

### "List"

Remember when Sayid's whole role post-Island was to head around the
world assassinating people? "List" details Sayid's list of People Who
Must Die. This action show features the killshot of the week.

### "Last"

Everyone focuses on who was first on the island. Ever wonder who was the
last to leave? This SF show set in the far future details the final
generation of island inhabitants, and their many robot battles. The
smoke monster was just the beginning.

### "Lest"

Judge not, lest ye be judged. This series explores Jacob as he wanders
the earth, seeking those who could become his candidates. Each week,
Jacob explores the life of a new character, helping them move past their
barriers to possibly become candidates, only to later be crossed off.
Chalk in a cave.

### "Lust"

Alone on the island, Ben and Hurley have certain needs. Using the
ability of the light to create a smoke monster, they sacrifice one of
their followers to become the ultimate shape-shifting companion. This
erotic journey will appear only on late night cable.
