Title: Dear Jamba Juice...
Date: 2008-04-22 16:48
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Dear Jamba Juice,

When we first met, it was like I had met my soul (stomach?) mate. Your
healthy fruit smoothies were both good tasting, and good for you. All
the people that you hung out with were young, attractive, fitness
minded, and wearing at least 2 clothing items from REI or the Nike
store. You oozed modernity with your blaring music, loud blenders, and
"everything's got to be fresh" attitude. I was willing to turn a blind
eye when I saw a scoop of frozen strawberries going into my smoothie.
They were frozen because they're not in season, right? Or were they
frozen because it made for a better texture in the smoothie? Of course,
it was both!

Every time I went in and ordered by Banana Berry or Razzmatazz smoothie,
I was always startled by the "would you like a free boost with that?"
question. A free bost? For me? You're so kind and giving, Jamba! Ah yes,
let me see my choices: Bee Pollen, Vita, Wheat Germ, there were so many
fun and healthy choices to choose from. Oh, and I remember your friend,
the guy who always came in and ordered that shot of wheatgrass. Man, was
that guy ever cool! I couldn't believe that he drank that stuff! It
smelled like someone had just mowed the lawn, but in liquid form. Oh
Jamba, how I loved you and your healthy mystique.

But then, you had to go and change. You thought that you needed more
'offerings'. You started to carry breads, popcorn, pita chips, and then
you had a brief time where you sold soups. We won't mention the soups.
Then, you expanded the menu to be so confusing that I couldn't find my
good old friend Banana Berry. You became over-categorized. You lost your
simplicity.

Whats that I see? Lite smoothies on your menu? I thought all smoothies
were lite? I thought all smoothies are healthy? But your 'lite'
smoothies have Splenda (a natural sweetener, you tell me). But does this
mean your original smoothies have \*gasp\* sugar? Does this mean that
they're as healthy as I've thought they were all these years? Let me
check your menu. Oh, you've got "Creamy Indulgences"? Are those not
healthy smoothies either? That sounds like ice cream! Let me check
again... I see "Blended with a Purpose". What purpose do you mean? And
"All Fruit Smoothies" -- isn't that just another sign that the rest of
your menu has some dark secret ingredient? I'm becoming more and more
convinced that you're adding sugar or (dare I even think it) High
Fructose Corn Syrup to my good old friend Banana Berry. And whats this?
"Yogurt and Fruit blends"? Oh, so wait, um, uh, isn't that what a
smoothie is? And my old "Jamba Classics" have been relegated to the
side, as if, \*sniff\* \*sniff\* as if they aren't the same tasty and
healthy smoothies that I once fell in love with!

Jamba, I can see now that you've betrayed me. I can tell by your mixed
messages. You tout "health" on one side of the menu and "indulgence" on
the other. You tout "sugar free" on the bottom of the menu, which to me
says that everything else contains sugar! I read your ingredient lists,
and I can see through you now. Its the "sorbet" and the "frozen yogurt".
Those are both secret code words for "this is where we sneak in the
sugar and/or high fructose corn sweetener."

You still can't figure out why people still come to you. You want to
offer things like "Smoothies with organic granola". You've got this
crazy drive to expand your menu. Just keep it simple Jamba! Focus on
what you do best! On top of it all, you're not asking me which free
boost I want anymore, and in fact, it looks like some of the boosts cost
extra with some of the smoothies. Your stores aren't filled with fit,
healthy, athletic looking people. Your employees are surly unshaven
teenagers. Your "merchandise" and books seem stale and old. Can't you
find something new to sell other than those same books and juicer that
have been there for what seems like a decade?

Oh Jamba Juice, can I still call you Juice Club? When we first met, all
you had were smoothies, and you had me totally convinced that they were
healthy and good for me. They all cost the same, they all came in the
same size cup, and they were all delicious.

Now, you've confused me with sizes, categories, boost or no boost, and
even more importantly: You've revealed the dark secret that you've been
keeping all these years. You aren't healthy. You're a desert. I can't
skip lunch and have a Jamba smoothie anymore. You're just not healthy
like I used to think you were, and now, you're admitting it right there
on your menu for all to see.

Jamba Juice, I think we're going to have to start seeing other people.
Thats it. I've said it. The romance is over.

At least I can still have those sweet memories of times (and smoothies)
gone by.
