Title: Initial thoughts on the Google Nexus S.
Date: 2011-02-07 11:56
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

I was fortunate enough to get a Nexus S from a friend who works at
Google, thanks Scott!

I'm using it as a replacement for my Nexus One that I got about a year
ago.  Here's some quick thoughts:

**The Good**

It feels fast & smooth, the screen is gorgeous, and the headphone jack
is in the right place, next to the power connector.  This means you can
charge and listen in the car without doing cable gymnastics.)

The Gingerbread software updates are nice, but aren't a huge difference
with the FroYo that I had on my N1.  Menus are black, and there's a
little more polish, and that's about all the difference that I can see
(as a user -- I'm sure there's a lot going on under the hood).

The camera, on first inspection, seems to perform much better.  (At
least the rear-facing one does.  The front-facing one seems quite
rudimentary).

More internal memory for applications (\~800MB) is a godsend.  The N1
was getting really full, and this has helped a bunch.  That said, why is
it only 800MB?

The audio quality coming out of the headset jack is substantially
improved over the N1. I'm using the same exact headphones, and the sound
has much tighter bass. The maximum volume on the NS is much louder than
the N1. I suspect they have a higher output driver for the jack.
External speaker volume & quality is also much improved over the N1.

**The Bad**

The front of the screen is plastic.  It's going to scratch, a lot.  This
seems like a really, really bad decision, and it didn't come with any
kind of slipcover.  Using something like an [Invisible
Shield](http://zagg.com) seems like a shame, since it would destroy the
look of the beautiful glossy screen.

No indicator LEDs at all.  No visual charging indicator.  No 'new
message' indicator.  This is an unfortunate emission, as it was used by
several apps (TweetDeck, GMail, SMS, etc.) to indicate activity without
having to unlock the phone.

In general, the build quality feels cheaper.  I actually like the metal
& glass feel of the N1, and the NS is light and cheaper feeling.   It's
probably more rugged at a macro level (no screen cracks, etc.) but much
less rugged at a micro level (minor dents & scratches).

No removable storage.  Again, this feels like cost cutting.  Why not put
a micro-SD card slot on this thing and let me update to 16 or 32GB when
I want?  Why am I limited to built-in memory?

**Verdict?**

It's a nice phone, but the difference from a Nexus One running
Gingerbread would be really minimal.   The extra speed makes for a
smoother experience, but it doesn't feel like an improvement in
functionality, just in look & feel.
