Title: Robots are never going to learn to drive cars.
Date: 2011-10-04 12:38
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

Here's a simple question:

**When am I going to be able to buy a Robot that can drive me around in
my car?**

It sounds appealing, doesn't it?  If such a thing existed, we'd never
have to drive our cars anywhere anymore.  We could just tell our
personal robots where we want to go, and they would drive us there while
we sat in the back, right?

**Wrong!**

Robots will never drive cars.

**Why?**

Because trying to cram all the car driving specific knowledge into a
general purpose robot is a huge waste of engineering time.  For example,
you would need to teach the robot how to grasp the steering wheel, push
the pedals, and all the other physical mechanics of interfacing with a
car.  But, a robot could easily just "plug in" to the car's mechanical
controls and forego the extra layer of indirection, right?

But, when you start to go down this route, you quickly disembody the
robot, stick it's head (cameras & sensors) on the roof, its brains (a
big computer) in the trunk, and servos or even digital interfaces for
gas, brake, steering & shifting.  And, since you've disembodied the
robot, you're not going to need to worry about how to teach your robot
how to take out the trash and make sandwiches, since it's already been
disembodied and is now one with the car.

**What does this teach us?**

It teaches us that general purpose interfaces for specific tasks are a
fools errand.  Making a general purpose interface is really, really hard
in comparison to a well-crafted single-purpose interface.  The
single-purpose interface is going to be much simplified, faster, and
easier to use than some grand-unified vision.

**Why am I thinking about this?**

Because I believe that spoken, natural-language interfaces are a fools
errand.  They make great demos (as do general purpose humanoid robots)
but practically, it's much better and easier to have a special-purpose
interface for a given task.
