Title: First Thoughts: GTA: San Andreas
Date: 2005-04-22 07:00
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

![](http://rockstargames.com/images/gtasalogo.jpg)  
  
They're saying its going to be the biggest PS2 game of all time. They're
saying its the most anticipated PS2 game of all time. What-ever.  
  

I've spent the last two night playing it, and I'm sort of not
impressed.  
  

First, the graphics. They suck. Really. The first GTA3 was the best
looking GTA game so far. Vice City was worse, and San Andreas is much
worse. When they said that the protagonist in the game is black, I
didn't realize that they meant "\#000000", not "African American." I
think that Rockstar is trying to "overcompensate" for the PS2's lack of
graphics, and adding too much lens flare, too much contrast, and not
keeping it simple and playable. Its too difficult to tell cars from
road, and to see the faces of the main characters. Its all completely
blacked out. This game is plagued with contrast problems, aliasing
problems (jaggies everywhere), Level of detail problms (cars and
buildings pop in all the time). I don't think its worth it. They've gone
too far, in trying to make something that just doesn't work on the PS2.
Hopefully the XBOX or PC versions will be better. I'm sure Rockstar
knows their audience, and knows that its not ALL about the PS2.  
  

Second: "Ghetto". This game is really "in the hood" and frankly, I find
it sort of annoying and alienating. Lots of gang-talk, lots of drive by
shootings (sort of fun, but...) The voiceover quality is good, but I
just don't connect with the dialog. They seem pointless and too long.
I'm tending more to just skip them all and play the missions, but I know
I won't get as involved if I don't get sucked into the plot. Oh well.  
  

Third: Too much drug talk. I like the clean "mafioso" feel of GTA3, high
stakes, high cash. This is all about gang turf warfare, racism, and
drugs. On the one hand, its probably an accurate description of life in
East LA, but I'm not sure thats what I want from a game. I'd rather have
an exaggerated fantasy world, then a gritty overly "real" setting.  
  

Fourth: The people. Take all the T&A that Vice City added to GTA3, and
double it. This game would lead you to believe that a good two thirds of
the population is hookers that walk around in thongs and bikini tops. In
downtown LA (oops, I mean "Los Santos").  
  

The Good: Its a lot easier to run from the cops. I like the new fence
jumping moves. I like the large environments (but I wish there was less
popup).  
  

Summary: Just replay GTA3 or better yet, GTA2. That game was a classic.
You can find it in the bargian bin at many game stores. Its really fun.
Forget GTA:SA. Its not that good, but I'll probably keep playing it
anyway.  

