Title: Hush Music
Date: 2005-04-22 07:00
Author: slacy
Category: Music
Status: published

![](http://www.hushrecords.com/assets/small-color-flag.jpg)  
As part of my [emusic.com](http://www.emusic.com/) subscrption, I found
a great album called "[Read: Interpreting
Bjork](http://hushrecords.com/discs/readdomestic.htm)" thats a set of
covers of Bjork songs. All of the artists are sort of folk-indie rock,
and the whole thing is really good. Lots of variety, and some great
re-interpretations of the Bjork stuff. Its fun to make a playlist that
has the original songs followed by the covers. Anyway, I decided that
the stuff was good enough to take a deeper look, and that led me
directly to the record label "Hush", which put out the compilation. You
can find a set of free (and high quality) [mp3 files on their
website](http://www.hushrecords.com/mp3enhancedframeset.html). I'd
especially recommend anything by The Decemberists, Blanket Music, and
Corrina Repp. You'll find all those artists on the previous link. Its a
great selection of music for free, and since all of Hush's albums are on
emusic, I've begun downloading the full albums.

If you haven't heard of emusic, its a DRM-free mp3-only music service,
which makes it the only Linux-friendly online music store. The other
great thing is their pricing model -- \$10/mo for 40 songs up to \$20/mo
for 90 songs. Thats a great steal, especially when you include the 50
free songs in the promo. [Check out emusic
here.](http://www.emusic.com/)  
  
  

