Title: Rebooting my wireless phone?
Date: 2005-04-22 07:00
Author: slacy
Category: General
Status: published

![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/fs_tru88853.jpg)  
The phone rings. I press "Talk". I don't hear anything. Oh, right, its
one of those annoying telemarketers that don't pick up for like 15
seconds! Or is it? To find out, I put it on speakerphone. I figure I'd
let them listen to a little music while they're chatting away at me. 3
minutes pass, and no one has picked up. Whats going on? I call 611,
hoping to talk to PacBell to tell them to block whovever the last person
who called me was. There's no dailtone, and 611 never connects. What
gives? Has my phone service been cut off? I walk to the kitchen, to our
one and only truly wired phone. It has a dialtone, and seems fine. Okay,
this is weird.

Now, I'm thinking that maybe something odd has happened to the jack that
the wireless phone has been plugged into. So, I unplug the whole mess,
and move it over to a new outlet. When I plug it in, it says "Welcome!
Please Wait." on the screen for 10 seconds or so, then shows its normal
display. I try one of the handsets, and it works fine. So, it \*was\*
the phone jack! (but wait, why were the wireless phones ringing but not
connecting?) So, I haul it back to where it normally is, and plug it in,
and it works!

I attribute this whole scenaio to bad software. I think it hit some
weird problem and just needed to be rebooted. Doing a power cycle seemed
to fix it up right. Weird. I wonder how long it was in that state for?

BTW, the phone, as pictured above, is a UNIDEN TRU8885. Just in case
anyone ever google searches for that. (as if!)  
  

