Title: Virtual Whale Watching using Google Maps Satellite View
Date: 2005-04-22 07:00
Author: slacy
Category: Web
Status: published

[![](http://slacy.com/blog/images/whale.jpg)](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=shelter+cove,+ca&ll=39.939208,-124.045419&spn=0.007467,0.009688&t=k&hl=en)

I'm not sure what inspired me to do this, but I was wondering the other
day if I could possibly see a whale via the Google Maps Satellite view.
In fact, I set out to be able to distinctively see any invidivual
animal. I checked the [San Diego Wild Animal
Park](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=15500+San+Pasqual+Valley+Road,+Escondido,+California+92027&ll=33.097912,-116.998129&spn=0.007467,0.009688&t=k&hl=en),
but ended up searching the seas for what you see above. It would be an
interesting point to say that whales are the only animal visible via
satellite at this resolution. I'm not 100% positive thats a whale, but I
think its about the right size for a California Grey Whale, and its in a
location thats known for its good whale watching. My criteria were:
Looks like a whale, heading in the right direction (parallel to the
coastline), and about the right size, and maybe even traveling in a pod.
This guy is obviously alone, so I missed on that one, but there's still
a lot of ocean to search. I figured they'd be about the same size as a
tractor trailor, which you can see
[here](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=shelter+cove,+ca&ll=39.868784,-123.713468&spn=0.007467,0.009688&t=k&hl=en).
I also checked the islands around Seattle (San Juan Islands) for Orcas,
but there wasn't much high-res satellite stuff for the water there.

NB: Google Maps Satellite view is completely missing the farallon
islands!

UPDATE: I've decided that this is NOT a whale, but just a wave heading
down and to the right, with the sea-foam left behind the whale. I'll
keep looking and let you know if I find anything.
